All right guys welcome to your next project.
So I think you're going to enjoy this project because we haven't looked at Hamburger menus or anything
like that yet.
And this is going to be a camp a hamburger menu that's completely and CSX.
Now most of these things have Javascript involved and we're not going to do that.
I'm going to show you a trick so that we don't even have to use javascript.
But first let's take a look at what we'll be building.
Now what you're seeing here this this little splash page with the image this isn't really important
to the project we've done all this before.
We're just going to add an overlay and image and use flex to center it.
What we're focusing on is this right here.
This is a hamburger menu and I believe it gets its name because it has three lines that look like a
hamburger.
And I'm sure you've seen these before where you click them and maybe something opens from the side or
comes down or you get an entire overlay like we're doing.
So I'm just gonna go ahead and click this and notice that a couple of things happen.
So one if we look at the hamburger menu itself it turns into an X which is really cool.
And when we hover off of it and go back on it kind of just goes back and forth which is a neat effect.
And then we get this entire menu overlay with some links here.
So this is a really nice menu because it's completely responsive.
It doesn't matter how big or small the screen size is.
It's going to work and you don't need any extra media queries or anything like we've been doing.
And I built it in a way so that you can use this in other projects pretty easily.
We're actually going to put all this the menu CSX in its own file in a file called menu dot CSX.
Now let me explain how this is actually working without javascript because usually what you would do
is you would dynamically set a class in JavaScript maybe like a show class or something.
So that when you clicked you had a javascript click event that would put in a show class or something
like that.
But we're not doing that.
This is actually a checkbox.
This is an H e-mail input with the type of checkbox and with a checkbox you can style the checked state
when it's exit when it's checked.
You can you can add styles to that and that's what we're doing.
We're basically going to get rid of the checkbox itself and replace it with this but it still has a
check state.
So when I when I click it we're actually checking it and we can create all these styles.
Basically you choose to display this overlay ad transitions transform stuff like that and then we can
uncheck and it goes away.
All right.
So this is something that is very useful very unique.
There's no javascript involved.
So I think you guys will like this little project now we're gonna start with just the Tim Al I want
to create all the each team all which isn't much at all and then just the base style so we get this
image and stuff like that all the stuff we've done already.
And then in the next video we'll start on the actual CSX for the menu.
All right.
So I have an empty folder called hamburger overlay menu and I'm going to just make this smaller we could
probably make this a little smaller because this is completely responsive so it doesn't matter if we
keep it small but we're going to create a file called index each team mouse so let's go up here and
create index start each terminal and then we're going to have a folder called CSX and inside here let's
create a style dot CSX and then like I said I want all the menu stuff to be in its own file so menu
dot CSX and we're gonna have one image so we'll have a folder called I Am G.
And let me just grab that real quick.
Now you guys can get this from the the files in this lecture.
You'll have all the completed files and you can just take it from that.
But let me see.
Just grab it real quick or is it
all right.
So I'm going to just bring this in here.
So there's our image and now let's go into our index each team L and I'm just going to close up this
sidebar.
All right.
So we'll call this hamburger menu overlay and let's link in our style sheets.
So we'll do link.
We're gonna have style dot CSX.
Actually it's an CSF slash style CSX.
And then we also want to include our menu dot CSX.
All right.
And it's up to you if you want to do this stuff if you want include multiple style sheets if you have
a ton of styling for one particular thing like we're doing here then you may want to do it this way
or you could just include it all in one.
So let's start with let's let's take care of the h here Miles so we're gonna have a a div here with
the class of menu wrap and inside here we want our inputs.
And like I said it's going to have a type of checkbox.
And we don't need a name and an I.D. All we need is a class.
And I'm going to call this class toddler OK because that's what it is it's going to toggle that overlay.
And underneath that we're gonna have a div with the class of hamburger and we're gonna have an empty
div in here now the way that we're structuring this might look a little weird but that's what we need
to do in order to get the effect that we're going for.
So we're gonna have a class of menu underneath and then a div and then another div and inside here will
be the UL OK.
So this will be our list.
We'll have list item.
Let's put an A tag.
These aren't going to actually go anywhere.
And I want to give you guys a challenge to turn this into a full Web site.
Look with what you've learned so far.
I'm not going to go through it because I don't want to repeat stuff that we've already done and that
we're gonna do in the future but it be a nice little challenge for you to create an actual site from
this.
I mean obviously you could just point to about Dot HCM L and also include the menu in that page as well.
But we're gonna just copy this down a couple times in this next one.
Actually the top one I'm gonna make home so home about to do services doesn't really matter services
and lots to contact.
OK so that's that.
Let's save this and we'll open it with live server.
And this is going to look very ups.
Hold on what's going on.
I think I have something else open with live server.
You think I still have my news grid open.
Yeah we just closed that up.
OK so let's try that again.
And there it is.
So we just have a little checkbox here.
So we're somehow going to turn this into this with CSX.
That's how powerful it is how powerful CSX is.
OK.
So let's do the rest of the content.
So under the last div we'll create a header with the idea of showcase and let's have a container and
let's also have a showcase dash container we're going to use flex here to Center everything and it's
put an H1.
We'll just say welcome and then a paragraph we'll do like Lorem 20 and then under the paragraph let's
put in a tag with the class of B10.
I realize I didn't have to do this part but I'm doing it for two reasons one just so we have some things
to so it looks decent and so that we can reiterate things that we've you've already learned.
All right.
So now let's go into our style that CSX and let's add our our main styles.
Now we're gonna use variables here so let's say in our route scope we're gonna have a primary color
and I'm going to use our GPA K member RG B is red green blue alpha so we can add transparency to to
the element using the color.
Okay so we're gonna have 13 1 10 one thirty nine and then the opacity or the Alpha will be point seventy
five.
Okay so it's gonna be this color here and it's gonna be a little see through and we're also going to
have a secondary color which is gonna be like an orange.
So it's a secondary color we're going to use that for the hover links and that's gonna be 2 2 9 1 4
8 0 and let's do an alpha of just zero point nine
OK.
And then we're gonna have an overlay color so the overlay is gonna be.
Actually no.
I should probably keep the keep the file open just so I can show you like what's what.
So this right here the background is gonna be the overlay color the.
Yeah.
That's gonna be the overlay so let's change this to overlay and this is gonna be 24 is going to be pretty
similar to the primary but darker.
So twenty four thirty nine fifty one and we're gonna do zero point eight five.
OK.
Now if you want this to be less transparent see how we can see the welcome behind it.
You can just raise this up.
You'll be able to just put this to maybe ninety five or just one if you want it to be solid but I like
I like to look the see through effect.
All right.
So that's our overlay color and then last thing I want is the is the speed OK how fast this actually
opens I want to put that in a variable so that it's easy to access.
So let's say menu dash speed zero point seventy five seconds.
And I know that this has to do with the menu and this is styled out CSX but I didn't want to put separate
variables in the menu CSF.
We can actually use these variables in that file because we're putting we're including the style CSX
before the menu so we're able to use those variables.
OK.
Now let's add our reset so say margin zero.
And we'd like to put a space there.
Margin zero and having zero and then let's do box sizing for the box for the body we're going to use
the rubato font.
So we have to grab that real quick.
Let's go to Google fonts and rubato I have right here I'm just going to click that and I'm going to
grab to make this a little bigger
OK.
So I'm going to grab this link and put that in the index each time.
All right above the style sheets
all right so let's see.
Next thing in our style CSX we want to add the font family which is going to be rubato
sans serif.
And then let's do a line height of one point four OK and then we have our container to move everything
to the middle.
So we're going to set a max width and I'm going to do nine sixty.
And the reason I'm doing it so thin is because I don't want it to get in the way of the menu.
I want the menu to always be outside of it.
So even if we go like here you can see that there is there is room here.
So when we scroll down the content will be this won't cover the content.
Basically you can experiment with it if you want.
And that goes for any project if you guys want to experiment with different values and do things a little
differently that's that's absolutely fine.
In fact I encourage that.
So let's say margin auto we want to push it to the middle.
Overflow should be hidden.
And let's add the padding that's another thing that's going to push the content in so let's do zero
top and bottom and three ram left and right.
OK.
So if we if we save this it's going to look like this for now.
Now let's see what should we do next.
Let's do the showcase so showcase.
And I'm going to do the background of the showcase as the primary colors.
So we'll put in our very variable of primary color and let's do color whites and we'll set the height
to 100 viewport height so want to take up the whole page and position relative I'm doing position relative
because we're gonna use the before pseudo selector to add our overlay and the overlay has to be position
absolute and remember that position absolute is relative to its first relative container which of course
we want to be the showcase.
If not it will use the body as the as its container.
So that's good that's save.
And just you can pretty much completely ignore this whole part because we're going to be changing this.
It's not going to display it for us.
We're going to add some see ISIS to hide it and then it's only going to show when we click that the
the hamburger which right now is a checkbox.
So let's go down here and say showcase before.
And remember if we use before or after we need a content value but we're not actually inserting content.
So we just put nothing and then the background U.R.L..
So the URL is going to be dot dot slash AMG slash showcase.
We want to do no repeat center center slash cover as usual.
And then again like I said before we want to position this absolute.
We want it to start at the top zero and left zero corner in span all the way across and all the way
up and down.
So if we save that we get our image.
Now the image is covering everything so let's set the z index to negative 1 and save and there we go.
So now the image is behind the coloring.
All right.
And the read this is a little different than how we've done it before because we're using an RGA value
and that is what this primary color right here if I change this to one and save it's going to be solid.
So the transparency for the background images is controlled with this.
If I do like four or five you'll see that it's lighter.
So you can change it to how you want.
OK.
And then the overlay is going to be the menu overlay transparency.
So there's really two levels of transparency.
So let's see.
Let's let's make the showcase container a flex box so that we can center everything.
So we'll see a showcase showcase container on a display flex and set the Flex direction to column because
we want this to go up and down and we want to do all of our centering.
So a line items center that should start to get drilled in your head justify the content center and
text align center.
So that should put it in the middle.
Now it's not down here because I haven't added the height.
We have the height for for the actual showcase which is 100 viewport but the showcase container we need
to set that to 100 percent of its parent.
OK.
So we'll set height to 100 percent and save.
And now that will get pushed down.
All right so let's see the H1.
I want to make that bigger so showcase each one.
Let's set the font size to do for them.
I think I did three on the other one but I think I think it should be a little bigger.
I make the take the paragraph a little bigger as well.
Showcase paragraph font size will do one point three REM all right.
And then for the button that that'll be the last thing.
Let's just do a class of B10
so the button.
I'm going to do our same rigamarole we've been doing we want to display as inline block.
And let's set the border to none in the background.
I'm actually going to use the primary color
and it's two color whites.
Let's do padding.
So for the padding we'll do.
Point seven five REM.
Top and bottom one point five REM left and right.
And I just want to add a little margin top of one RAM just to bring it down a little bit and let's add
a transition so that when we hover over it it will kind of smoothly transition into the hover effect.
So going to say all one second and we'll say he's easing out so save.
There he go and all the the underline.
Let's get rid of that text decoration.
None.
All right.
So now we're gonna do the hover state so button hover and since we're using a variable where it could
be any color.
I'm just going to use opacity as the effect and we'll do zero point seven.
So I'll save.
And then when I hover over it you'll see that it changes and it does it nice and smooth because we added
the transition we could just do transition opacity.
We don't need to do all.
And there we go.
All right.
So that's gonna be it for the this this whole showcase area.
Everything we do from now on is going to be for the menu and there's a lot of CSX now having something
like this is really cool.
It looks really cool but it is a lot of work.
There's a lot of CSX that goes into doing something like this.
All right.
So we're gonna jump into that and that's the reason I haven't created the hamburger menu on every project
we've done because it would just take up so much time.
But I did want to include it in the course.
So I'll see you in the next video.